# matlab_findPattern
Pattern recognition is the process of recognizing patterns by using an algorithm. Pattern recognition can be defined as the classification of data based on knowledge already gained or on statistical information extracted from patterns and their representation. One of the important aspects of the pattern recognition is its application potential. Features may be represented as continuous, discrete or discrete binary variables. A feature is a function of one or more measurements, computed so that it quantifies some significant characteristics of the object. In computer vision, speeded up robust features (SURF) is a patented local feature detector and descriptor. It can be used for tasks such as object recognition, image registration, classification, or 3D reconstruction. It is partly inspired by the scale-invariant feature transform (SIFT) descriptor. The standard version of SURF is several times faster than SIFT and claimed by its authors to be more robust against different image transformations than SIFT. To detect interest points, SURF uses an integer approximation of the determinant of Hessian blob detector, which can be computed with 3 integer operations using a precomputed integral image. Its feature descriptor is based on the sum of the Haar wavelet response around the point of interest. These can also be computed with the aid of the integral image. Blob detection methods are aimed at detecting regions in a digital image that differ in properties, such as brightness or color, compared to surrounding regions. The determinant of a Hessian matrix can be used as a generalisation of the second derivative test for single-variable functions.
